---
title: "Acceptance"
tags:
  - acceptance
  - gay
  - trans
  - mindfulness
  - thanksgiving
  - subcultures
---

It's Thanksgiving, so naturally we're all supposed to be thinking about what
we are thankful for as individuals or unit groups of people. Having thought
about it, I think I'd have to say that this year, the thing I've realized most
and valued most is acceptance. This probably won't come as a surprise to some of
you.

Interestingly enough, my personal belief is that the human power of acceptance
comes from mindfulness, awareness, and presence. Perhaps that is also to say
that we, as humans, would be more accepting if we didn't lose touch with that
as we grow into adulthood; acceptance is a power that we can lose, if only to
regain. There are plenty of stories about kids asking questions about topics
that some adults have a hard time with, like being trans\* for instance, getting
a pretty simple, but straightforward response, accepting it, and then moving
on to more important questions, like what's for lunch.

Acceptance helps us deal with a world in which we cannot possibly understand
everything around us and comes from an open mind. We can't allow ourselves to
be comfortable with little boxes and labels for everyone and everything,
especially broad definitions built on arbitrary traits that turn into
stereotypes. This obviously has negative impacts on the people that it
suppresses. Just take a look at the study about girls being good at reading and
boys being good at math. Look at the bisexuals who struggle with telling people
of their sexuality because they constantly get the response that self-labeling
as bisexual is really just them "not wanting to admit to being gay." Some people
born of one gender grow to feel like and self-identify as the opposite, but
can't express themselves in public because of things like the [panic plea][plea]
. Some people come to self-identify as no traditional gender at all. Some would
rather die at their own hand than go through the pain of trying to self-label
and try to gain some minimal level of acknowledgement, let alone acceptance,
from the people that matter to them or the communities because they are so
oppressive.

Even still, there are other groups who aren't in political spotlight that should
have equal rights and protections, but legal defenses don't stop ignorant people
from doing terrible things, it just provides consequences for those actions.
Take a look at Sophie Lancaster and [this powerful video][sophie-video]. She
chose to express herself through her dress and was the subject of a violent and
fatal hate crime for her self-labeling. Furries get harassed with the
misunderstanding that they are into bestiality. Emo's and goths are
unnecessarily thought to be suicidal. People with anxiety are told to "stop
being nervous." People with depression are told there is nothing to be sad
about. Introverts are told to participate and be active in their life.
People with bipolar disorder are avoided because people think they're "crazy."
The oppression that a lack of acceptance causes comes in many forms and
intensities, all of them fundamentally wrong. It comes from the result of a
closed mind. It comes from not being aware of what it is like to be human. It
is, unfortunately natural. Our brains are wired to try to assume as much
information as possible. It keeps us feeling safe and it has been evolutionarily
useful. However, it is something we must catch ourselves in the act of doing and
be mindful of at every turn. It is something that we must resist. The keys are
recognizing and reducing the assumptions you make, giving room for others to
self-label and self-identify, and asking questions in a non-assumptive manner.

1. **Assumptions** are a natural course of learning about the world and arise
   from our ability to recognize patterns. The assumptions we learn to make are
   based on life experiences or our normative biases. If you grow up in a white,
   suburban neighborhood, you might make the assumption that everyone you meet
   is some form of Christian. It's highly likely that you wouldn't even know
   you were making this assumption until you meet someone, become friends, and
   find out that they aren't. This "change" in information about your friend
   will likely come as a shock to you, but it wasn't a change at all. It was
   entirely new information. Naturally, your brain may react negatively to
   learning that your assumption was wrong because that can impact your survival
   and safety. This happens to me sometimes when I tell someone I'm gay.

2. **Allowing for self-identification** is an important part of letting others
   be themselves. It is difficult because it requires you to not make
   assumptions about others. Take control of those and let people explain who
   they feel they are to you. Try to remove the place of stereotypes and don't
   create new ones based on the new self-identities you learn about people.
   Most importantly, don't let the correlations reinforce society-built labels
   and stereotypes. The best part of this practice is that you can feel more
   free to self-identify. You can break free of the traits others say your
   stereotype should have that you then impose on yourself, consciously or
   subconsciously. You may not even realize the value of this, but hopefully
   that feeling alone will encourage you to further investigate and reflect on
   yourself.

3. **Asking questions** is the absolutely biggest step to breaking down
   assumptions and stereotypes because it is the primary way you can inform
   yourself. However, asking questions also requires that you listen to those
   around you. For instance, one of the biggest problems with this step is
   approaching people who are visibly introverted or have social anxiety. They
   don't have to say something for you to listen. In cases like this, it might
   be best to ask questions standing beside the person instead of in a
   face-to-face, "confrontation" style. Not doing this risks you seeming like
   you are making assumptions about them being an extrovert or being comfortable
   in random, spontaneous social situations.  Also make sure to learn how to see
   when it's best to stop asking questions.

Following these three general principles is a good recipe for expanding your
awareness of the human condition and the great diversity that brings. We all
know what diversity brings to teams. With enough learning and some
self-reflection, you could provide some of that diversity, having a better team
and living a more fulfilling life. I know I do.

Also, just remember that understanding is not required for respect.

[plea]: http://www.advocate.com/crime/2014/09/29/california-becomes-first-state-ban-gay-trans-panic-defenses
[sophie-video]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qW2ve6_BkRA
