---
title: "Borderlands: The Presequel"
---

So yes, I am here to talk to you about a game. If you've ever played one of
these games, you'll know. If you disagree, I'd advise you to reconsider.

I first got started when my boyfriend and I bought the second one on sale. I was
instantly sucked in by the first-person shooter/RPG mixture with levels and
skills and buildable talent trees. I loved playing Diablo 2 as a kid, but now I
didn't have to remember which skills do what, thanks to only having one main
skill. We played through it on the Xbox 360 using split screen. We beat the
game. We loved it enough to beat the game again. We tried other characters and
beat the game. We started exploring the world and looking at the side quests and
learning the characters' backstories. We got the Season Pass and played through
the DLC. We loved Tiny Tina's character and the writers of the story even more.
We didn't think it was possible.

Then the first game, _Borderlands_, went on sale. We got it and the General
Knoxx DLC. We Brick'd and Lilith'd our way through it all. About the time we got
to the DLC, we had already decided to get the _Presequel_ and looked at the
announced characters. We played alongside Athena, and my boyfriend made the
decision to play Athena in the upcoming game.

Now, we've beaten the Presequel (released on the 13th of October) twice and
reached the level cap of 50 this past weekend. What makes me love the game so
much? First and foremost, the writing. In my opinion, video games are just
another way to tell a story. It needs good characters, great plots and
conflicts, and yes, even plot twists. Any form of interactive gameplay is
acceptable, but good gameplay does help and the _Borderlands_ series definitely
has that.

What do I mean by good characters? Have you seen Lilith? She's a siren, a
special human with awesome tattoos that has a unique, awesome, phase-related
power: Phasewalking. She has great dialog and attitude. Torgue? He's a rather
musclar individual, owns a weapons company, loves explosions, and is always
shouting, being voiced by the same voice actor that gave us Hercule in the
English dub of _DragonBall Z_. You'd think with personality traits like that,
he'd be a hypermasculine individual, or a womanizer or something. Instead, on
more than one occaision, he takes the time to point out that women are people
and don't deserved to be objectified.

Other things:

* Labels for sexuality aren't necessary. I'll talk about this more in an
upcoming blog post about being gay, but no one in Borderlands is called or
considered gay, lesbian, bisexual, etc. Janey Springs is just into girls. Dr.
Nakayama is into guys, a little obsessively. Moxxi is in to a lot of people, but
that may be just when she is "in character." People don't ask for your
orientation, just for your phone number.

* The game has the right balance of taking itself seriously and being completely
absurd. Stopping Zarpedon from destroying the moon is serious. Preventing Jack
from controlling the awakened Warrior could prevent the planet from being
destroyed. On the other hand, there is a place called the "Badass Crater of
Badassitude" and there is a shotgun that literally curses at you when you switch
it out for another weapon.

* Tiny Tina. My favorite non-playable character. I tend to like dark things. I
like hearing people's personal stories of triumph. I don't know if it's some
early childhood mental distrubance, or if that's completely normal. Tiny Tina,
you find out through ECHO recordings and a side quest, is a 13 year old orphan
because her parents were sold into human experimentation. Her salvation? A
grenade she had on her at her mother's insistence. Now, she's an explosives
expert. Sounds like a sad backstory, but it doesn't end there. In the side
quest, you help her get revenge on the person who sold her parents. The
writers even take it further. She narrates a DLC in which her and some of the
other characters are playing "Bunkers and Badasses" (Dungeons and Dragons) and
she is the Game Master. She writes a whole campaign which reveals deeper
insights into her personal psychology and how she hasn't learned how to deal
with loss.
